content/learning-resources.md, before:

---
title: "Learning Resources"
# date: 2024-02-17
draft: false
showToc: true
TocOpen: false
hideCitation: true
---
## Timeless Essays/Videos
- The Bitter Lesson - http://www.incompleteideas.net/IncIdeas/BitterLesson.html
- The "most important century" blog post series - https://www.cold-takes.com/most-important-century
- Situational Awareness - https://situational-awareness.ai/
- Machines of Loving Grace - https://darioamodei.com/machines-of-loving-grace
- Stanford CS25: V4 I Hyung Won Chung of OpenAI (2:05 - 15:18) - https://youtu.be/orDKvo8h71o?si=oFd2l7YQzOoGat1q
- AlphaGo Documentary - https://youtu.be/WXuK6gekU1Y?si=uuPxNmTrpUNwzPA5
- Andrew Ng's Career Advice / Reading Research Papers https://youtu.be/733m6qBH-jI?si=OLaGzeqvuObpjl9H

## Youtube Channels/Podcasts
- Dwarkesh Patel - https://www.youtube.com/c/DwarkeshPatel
- AI Explained - https://www.youtube.com/@aiexplained-official
- Latent Space - https://www.youtube.com/@LatentSpacePod
- 80 000 hours - https://www.youtube.com/@eightythousandhours
- Cognitive Revolution - https://www.youtube.com/@CognitiveRevolutionPodcast
- Neel Nanda - https://www.youtube.com/@neelnanda2469

## Courses 
- Alignment Research Engineer Accelerator (ARENA) - https://github.com/callummcdougall/ARENA_3.0
- Hugging Face - https://huggingface.co/courses
- Advanced Large Language Model Agents: Berkley MOOC - https://llmagents-learning.org/sp25
- Andrej Karpathy's Zero to Hero Series - https://karpathy.ai/zero-to-hero.html
- From Deep Learning Foundations to Stable Diffusion - https://course.fast.ai/Lessons/part2.html
- DeepLearning.AI specializations (short courses are skippable imo) - https://www.deeplearning.ai/

## Blogs
- GOATs
  - Gwern - https://www.gwern.net/
  - Lillian Weng's Lil' Log - https://lilianweng.github.io/
- Alignment and Interpretability
  - Anthropic's Alignment Science Blog - https://alignment.anthropic.com/
  - Anthropic's Transformer Circuits Thread - https://transformer-circuits.pub/
  - LessWrong - https://www.lesswrong.com/
- Reinforcement Learning
  - RLHF Book - https://rlhfbook.com/
- Industry Trends
  - Epoch AI - https://epoch.ai/blog
  - SemiAnalysis - https://www.semianalysis.com/
- Agents
  - Anthropic: Building effective agents - https://www.anthropic.com/research/building-effective-agents
  - Google: Agents Whitepaper - https://www.kaggle.com/whitepaper-agents
- LLM Training
  - FineWeb - https://huggingface.co/spaces/HuggingFaceFW/blogpost-fineweb-v1
  - How to Scale Your Model: A Systems View of LLMs on TPUs - https://jax-ml.github.io/scaling-book/
  - The Ultra-Scale Playbook: Training LLMs on GPU Clusters - https://huggingface.co/spaces/nanotron/ultrascale-playbook
  - [Distributed Training] Picotron tutorial - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u2VSwDDpaBM&list=PL-_armZiJvAnhcRr6yTJ0__f3Oi-LLi9S

## Github Repos
- System Prompts
  - Leaked System Prompts - https://github.com/jujumilk3/leaked-system-prompts
- LLM Inference
  - EAGLE - https://github.com/SafeAILab/EAGLE
  - SGLang - https://github.com/sgl-project/sglang
  - vLLM - https://github.com/vllm-project/vllm
  - TensorRT - https://github.com/NVIDIA/TensorRT
- Reinforcement Learning
  - verl - https://github.com/volcengine/verl
  - trl - https://github.com/huggingface/trl
  - Search-R1 - https://github.com/PeterGriffinJin/Search-R1
- Agents
  - smolagents - https://github.com/huggingface/smolagents
  - OpenHands (formerly OpenDevin) - https://github.com/All-Hands-AI/OpenHands 

## Textbooks
- Reinforcement Learning by Richard S. Sutton and Andrew G. Barto - https://www.andrew.cmu.edu/course/10-703/textbook/BartoSutton.pdf
- Generative AI System Design Interview - https://www.amazon.com/Generative-AI-System-Design-Interview/dp/1736049143

## Newsletters
- AI News - https://buttondown.com/ainews/
- Latent Space - https://www.latent.space/
- China Talk - https://www.chinatalk.media/
- Import AI by Jack Clark - https://importai.substack.com/
- Rohan's Bytes - https://rohanpaul.substack.com/

## Tools
- Cursor - https://www.cursor.com/
- alphaXiv - https://www.alphaxiv.org/explore
- Gitingest - https://gitingest.com/

## LeetCode
- NeetCode - https://neetcode.io/

## What is this page?
This is my personal collection of AI learning resources that I've found valuable in my journey. While it primarily serves as my digital garden of knowledge links (which I keep permanently bookmarked for easy reference), I'm sharing it publicly for two important reasons:

1. To help me keep track of AI learning materials
2. To democratize access to AI knowledge

I've often met people who seemed impossibly knowledgeable, only to realize later that the gap wasn't about innate ability - it was about consistent, incremental learning over time. Their expertise wasn't built overnight, but through daily exploration, spaced repetition, and gradually connecting dots between different domains. This page aims to make my "iceberg" of knowledge visible and accessible to everyone, whether you prefer to dive deep into specific topics or build a wider understanding of the field.

Fair warning: some of these resources can be a dense collection of resources. Rather than providing a structured curriculum, think of this as a map of intellectual wormholes - each one potentially leading to vast new territories of knowledge. Some resources might seem overwhelming at first, but that's intentional - they're meant to be reference points you can return to as you grow. This is also not an exhaustive list, but should help point you in the right direction. 

While I maintain this primarily for my own reference and keep it bookmarked for daily use, I hope it serves as a valuable resource for anyone interested in diving deep into AI development. Consider this a living document that grows and evolves with the field. 

If there are any resources that you think deserve to be on this page (or don't), please reach out to me!

Commit message:

add Adam Brown clip to resources

content/learning-resources.md, after:

---
title: "Learning Resources"
# date: 2024-02-17
draft: false
showToc: true
TocOpen: false
hideCitation: true
---
## Timeless Essays/Videos
- The Bitter Lesson - http://www.incompleteideas.net/IncIdeas/BitterLesson.html
- The "most important century" blog post series - https://www.cold-takes.com/most-important-century
- Situational Awareness - https://situational-awareness.ai/
- Machines of Loving Grace - https://darioamodei.com/machines-of-loving-grace
- How Far Are We From An AI Einstein? - Adam Brown - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LjY0i2B-Avc
- Stanford CS25: V4 I Hyung Won Chung of OpenAI (2:05 - 15:18) - https://youtu.be/orDKvo8h71o?si=oFd2l7YQzOoGat1q
- AlphaGo Documentary - https://youtu.be/WXuK6gekU1Y?si=uuPxNmTrpUNwzPA5
- Andrew Ng's Career Advice / Reading Research Papers https://youtu.be/733m6qBH-jI?si=OLaGzeqvuObpjl9H

## Youtube Channels/Podcasts
- Dwarkesh Patel - https://www.youtube.com/c/DwarkeshPatel
- AI Explained - https://www.youtube.com/@aiexplained-official
- Latent Space - https://www.youtube.com/@LatentSpacePod
- 80 000 hours - https://www.youtube.com/@eightythousandhours
- Cognitive Revolution - https://www.youtube.com/@CognitiveRevolutionPodcast
- Neel Nanda - https://www.youtube.com/@neelnanda2469

## Courses 
- Alignment Research Engineer Accelerator (ARENA) - https://github.com/callummcdougall/ARENA_3.0
- Hugging Face - https://huggingface.co/courses
- Advanced Large Language Model Agents: Berkley MOOC - https://llmagents-learning.org/sp25
- Andrej Karpathy's Zero to Hero Series - https://karpathy.ai/zero-to-hero.html
- From Deep Learning Foundations to Stable Diffusion - https://course.fast.ai/Lessons/part2.html
- DeepLearning.AI specializations (short courses are skippable imo) - https://www.deeplearning.ai/

## Blogs
- GOATs
  - Gwern - https://www.gwern.net/
  - Lillian Weng's Lil' Log - https://lilianweng.github.io/
- Alignment and Interpretability
  - Anthropic's Alignment Science Blog - https://alignment.anthropic.com/
  - Anthropic's Transformer Circuits Thread - https://transformer-circuits.pub/
  - LessWrong - https://www.lesswrong.com/
- Reinforcement Learning
  - RLHF Book - https://rlhfbook.com/
- Industry Trends
  - Epoch AI - https://epoch.ai/blog
  - SemiAnalysis - https://www.semianalysis.com/
- Agents
  - Anthropic: Building effective agents - https://www.anthropic.com/research/building-effective-agents
  - Google: Agents Whitepaper - https://www.kaggle.com/whitepaper-agents
- LLM Training
  - FineWeb - https://huggingface.co/spaces/HuggingFaceFW/blogpost-fineweb-v1
  - How to Scale Your Model: A Systems View of LLMs on TPUs - https://jax-ml.github.io/scaling-book/
  - The Ultra-Scale Playbook: Training LLMs on GPU Clusters - https://huggingface.co/spaces/nanotron/ultrascale-playbook
  - [Distributed Training] Picotron tutorial - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u2VSwDDpaBM&list=PL-_armZiJvAnhcRr6yTJ0__f3Oi-LLi9S

## Github Repos
- System Prompts
  - Leaked System Prompts - https://github.com/jujumilk3/leaked-system-prompts
- LLM Inference
  - EAGLE - https://github.com/SafeAILab/EAGLE
  - SGLang - https://github.com/sgl-project/sglang
  - vLLM - https://github.com/vllm-project/vllm
  - TensorRT - https://github.com/NVIDIA/TensorRT
- Reinforcement Learning
  - verl - https://github.com/volcengine/verl
  - trl - https://github.com/huggingface/trl
  - Search-R1 - https://github.com/PeterGriffinJin/Search-R1
- Agents
  - smolagents - https://github.com/huggingface/smolagents
  - OpenHands (formerly OpenDevin) - https://github.com/All-Hands-AI/OpenHands 

## Textbooks
- Reinforcement Learning by Richard S. Sutton and Andrew G. Barto - https://www.andrew.cmu.edu/course/10-703/textbook/BartoSutton.pdf
- Generative AI System Design Interview - https://www.amazon.com/Generative-AI-System-Design-Interview/dp/1736049143

## Newsletters
- AI News - https://buttondown.com/ainews/
- Latent Space - https://www.latent.space/
- China Talk - https://www.chinatalk.media/
- Import AI by Jack Clark - https://importai.substack.com/
- Rohan's Bytes - https://rohanpaul.substack.com/

## Tools
- Cursor - https://www.cursor.com/
- alphaXiv - https://www.alphaxiv.org/explore
- Gitingest - https://gitingest.com/

## LeetCode
- NeetCode - https://neetcode.io/

## What is this page?
This is my personal collection of AI learning resources that I've found valuable in my journey. While it primarily serves as my digital garden of knowledge links (which I keep permanently bookmarked for easy reference), I'm sharing it publicly for two important reasons:

1. To help me keep track of AI learning materials
2. To democratize access to AI knowledge

I've often met people who seemed impossibly knowledgeable, only to realize later that the gap wasn't about innate ability - it was about consistent, incremental learning over time. Their expertise wasn't built overnight, but through daily exploration, spaced repetition, and gradually connecting dots between different domains. This page aims to make my "iceberg" of knowledge visible and accessible to everyone, whether you prefer to dive deep into specific topics or build a wider understanding of the field.

Fair warning: some of these resources can be a dense collection of resources. Rather than providing a structured curriculum, think of this as a map of intellectual wormholes - each one potentially leading to vast new territories of knowledge. Some resources might seem overwhelming at first, but that's intentional - they're meant to be reference points you can return to as you grow. This is also not an exhaustive list, but should help point you in the right direction. 

While I maintain this primarily for my own reference and keep it bookmarked for daily use, I hope it serves as a valuable resource for anyone interested in diving deep into AI development. Consider this a living document that grows and evolves with the field. 

If there are any resources that you think deserve to be on this page (or don't), please reach out to me!
